# Using Git and GitHub for Assignments

In this exercise, you will practice how to submit individual assignments using Git and GitHub. We will use this approach in MGTA 403: AI-Assisted Math and Programming for Business Analytics and in several other courses in the MSBA program. In particular, we aim to give you hands-on experience with the following.

1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
2. [GitHub](https://github.com.edu/)
3. Automated testing of code using GitHub actions (CI)

For this demo assignment, we will test code in the `code-template.py` file.

## Cloning your first assignment

In order to get started on this demo assignment, you will need to clone a repo (i.e., a directory with code and data files) to the `~/git` directory on your computer.

## Submit your assignment by pushing your code changes to the GitHub server

You will need to complete two step in the `code-template.py` file. When you submit your assignment by pushing your code changes back to the server, GitHub will run some tests on your code and will provide feedback if any of the tests fail to pass.

## Using GitHub Actions to run tests (Continuous integration CI) tests

This is where GitHub Actions and Continuous Integration (CI) comes in. By pushing code to the server a process is automatically triggered that will use a specific computing environment (i.e., the latest version of the RSM-MSBA computing environment) to run and test your submission.

Do not rename `code-template.py` and only change the content. There is a mistake in the file that will trigger an error during testing. Make the change suggested in the comments in the file but do **not** fix the error yet. Push your changes to GitHub and inspect the error messages generated by the testing process. You should get an email from GitHub that mentions the errors and provides a link to the full testing logs. After replacing `rsm-abc111` by your username, the page linked below will show a red circle with an X for this project to indicate test failure.

[https://github.com/rsm-msba-25-26/rsm-mgta403-practice-rsm-abc111](https://github.com/rsm-msba-25-26/rsm-mgta403-practice-rsm-aaa111)

You will be able to see all test "jobs" by clicking on "Actions" on the main page for your assignment repository. After you find and read the error messages, go ahead and fix the errors and push your changes back to the GitHub server. Within a few seconds you should see that all tests have now passed.
